<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>IV: The Oasis Special</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-4" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Oasis Special</h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Dusk was falling in the desert town of Eldorado when, on Friday evening, Bob Eden alighted from the train at a station that looked like a little red schoolhouse gone wrong. His journey down from San Francisco to Barstow had been quite without incident. At that town, however, a rather disquieting thing had happened. He had lost all trace of Charlie Chan.</p>
			<p>It was in the Barstow lunchroom that he had last seen the detective from the Islands, busy with a cup of steaming tea. The hour of three-twenty and the Eldorado train being some distance off, he had gone for a stroll through the town. Returning about three, he had looked in vain for the little Chinese policeman. Alone he had boarded the train, and now, as he stared up and down the dreary railroad tracks, he perceived that he had been the only passenger to alight at this unpromising spot.</p>
			<p>Thinking of the fortune in “undigestible” pearls on the detective’s person, he was vaguely alarmed. Had Chan met with some unfortunate accident? Or perhaps⁠—who could say? What did they really know about this Charlie Chan? Every man is said to have his price, and this was an overwhelming temptation to put in the way of an underpaid detective from Honolulu. But no⁠—Bob Eden recalled the look in Chan’s eyes when he had promised Sally Jordan to guard those pearls well. The Jordans no doubt had good reason for their faith in an old friend. But suppose Shaky Phil Maydorf was no longer in San Francisco⁠—</p>
			<p>Resolutely Bob Eden put these thoughts aside and, rounding the station, entered a narrow strip of ground which was, rather pathetically, intended for a park. February had done its worst, and up above the chill evening wind from the desert blew through the stark branches of Carolina poplars and cottonwoods. Crossing a gravel path almost hidden by a mass of yellow leaves, he stood on the kerb of the only pavement in Eldorado.</p>
			<p>Against the background of bare brown hills, he saw practically the entire town at a glance. Across the way a row of scraggly buildings proclaimed yet another Main Street⁠—a bank, a picture theatre, the Spot Cash Store, the News Bureau, the post-office, and, towering above the rest, a two-storey building that announced itself as the Desert Edge Hotel. Eden crossed the street, and, threading his way between dusty automobiles parked head on at the kerb, approached the door of the latter. On the double seat of a shoe-shining stand two ranchers lolled at ease, and stared at him with mild interest as he went inside.</p>
			<p>An electric lamp of modest candlepower burned above the desk of the Desert Edge, and a kindly old man read a Los Angeles paper in its dim company.</p>
			<p>“Good evening,” said Bob Eden.</p>
			<p>“Evenin’,” answered the old man.</p>
			<p>“I wonder if I might leave this suitcase in your checkroom for a while?” the boy inquired.</p>
			<p>“Checkroom, hell,” replied the old man. “Just throw her down anywhere. Ain’t lookin’ fer a room, I suppose. Make you a special rate.”</p>
			<p>“No,” said Eden. “I’m sorry.”</p>
			<p>“ ’Sall right,” answered the proprietor. “Not many are.”</p>
			<p>“I’d like to find the office of the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Eldorado Times</i>,” Eden informed him.</p>
			<p>“Round corner on First,” murmured the old man, deep in his pink newspaper again.</p>
			<p>Bob Eden went to the corner, and turned off. His feet at once left Eldorado’s solitary pavement for soft-crunching sand. He passed a few buildings even meaner than those on Main Street, a plumber’s shop, a grocer’s, and came to a little yellow shack which bore on its window the fading legend: “<i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">The Eldorado Times</i>. Job Printing Neatly Done.” There was no light inside, and crossing a narrow, dilapidated porch, he saw a placard on the door. Straining his eyes in the dusk, he read:</p>
			<blockquote>
				<p>Back in an hour⁠—</p>
				<p>God knows why.</p>
				<p>Will Holley</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Smiling, Eden returned to the Desert Edge. “How about dinner?” he inquired.</p>
			<p>“Wonderin’ about it myself,” admitted the old man. “We don’t serve meals here. Lose a little less that way.”</p>
			<p>“But there must be a restaurant⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Sure there is. This is an up-to-date town.” He nodded over his shoulder. “Down beyond the bank⁠—the Oasis Café.”</p>
			<p>Thanking him, Bob Eden departed. Behind unwashed windows he found the Oasis dispensing its dubious cheer. A long, high counter and a soiled mirror running the length of it suggested that in other days this had been an oasis indeed.</p>
			<p>The boy climbed on to one of the perilously high stools. At his right, too close for comfort, sat a man in overalls and jumper, with a week’s growth of beard on his lean, hard face. At his left, equally close but somehow not so much in the way, was a trim girl in khaki riding-breeches and blouse.</p>
			<p>A youth made up to resemble a motion-picture sheik demanded his order, and from a soiled menu he chose the Oasis Special⁠—“steak and onions, French fried, bread and butter and coffee. Eighty cents.” The sheik departed languidly.</p>
			<p>Awaiting the special, Bob Eden glanced into the smoky mirror at the face of the girl beside him. Not so bad, even in that dim reflection. Corn-yellow hair curling from under the brim of a felt hat; a complexion that no beauty parlour had originated. He held his left elbow close so that she might have more room for the business that engrossed her.</p>
			<p>His dinner arrived, a plenteous platter of food⁠—but no plate. He glanced at his neighbours. Evidently plates were an affectation frowned upon in the Oasis. Taking up a tarnished knife and fork, he pushed aside the underbrush of onions and came face to face with his steak.</p>
			<p>First impressions are important, and Bob Eden knew at once that this was no meek, complacent opponent that confronted him. The steak looked back at him with an air of defiance that was amply justified by what followed. After a few moments of unsuccessful battling, he summoned the sheik. “How about a steel knife?” he inquired.</p>
			<p>“Only got three and they’re all in use,” the waiter replied.</p>
			<p>Bob Eden resumed the battle, his elbows held close, his muscles swelling. With set teeth and grim face he bore down and cut deep. There was a terrific screech as his knife skidded along the platter, and to his horror he saw the steak rise from its bed of gravy and onions and fly from him. It travelled the grimy counter for a second, then dropped on to the knees of the girl and thence to the floor.</p>
			<p>Eden turned to meet her blue eyes filled with laughter.</p>
			<p>“Oh, I’m so sorry,” he said. “I thought it was a steak, and it seems to be a lapdog.”</p>
			<p>“And I hadn’t any lap,” she cried. She looked down at her riding-breeches. “Can you ever forgive me? I might have caught it for you. It only goes to show⁠—women should be womanly.”</p>
			<p>“I wouldn’t have you any different,” Bob Eden responded gallantly. He turned to the sheik. “Bring me something a little less ferocious,” he ordered.</p>
			<p>“How about the pot roast?” asked the youth.</p>
			<p>“Well, how about it?” Eden repeated. “Fetch it along and I’ll fight another round. I claim a foul on that one. And say⁠—bring this young woman a napkin.”</p>
			<p>“A what? A napkin. We ain’t got any. I’ll bring her a towel.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, no⁠—please don’t,” cried the girl. “I’m all right, really.”</p>
			<p>The sheik departed.</p>
			<p>“Somehow,” she added to Eden, “I think it wiser not to introduce an Oasis towel into this affair.”</p>
			<p>“You’re probably right,” he nodded. “I’ll pay for the damage, of course.”</p>
			<p>She was still smiling. “Nonsense. I ought to pay for the steak. It wasn’t your fault. One needs long practice to eat in the crowded arena of the Oasis.”</p>
			<p>He looked at her, his interest growing every minute. “You’ve had long practice?” he inquired.</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes. My work often brings me this way.”</p>
			<p>“Your⁠—er⁠—your work?”</p>
			<p>“Yes. Since your steak seems to have introduced us, I may tell you I’m with the moving-pictures.”</p>
			<p>Of course, thought Eden. The desert was filled with movie people these days. “Ah⁠—have I ever seen you in the films?” he ventured.</p>
			<p>She shrugged. “You have not⁠—and you never will. I’m not an actress. My job’s much more interesting. I’m a location-finder.”</p>
			<p>Bob Eden’s pot roast arrived, mercifully cut into small pieces by some blunt instrument behind the scenes. “A location finder? I ought to know what that is.”</p>
			<p>“You certainly ought to. It’s just what it sounds like. I travel about hunting backgrounds. By the Vandeventer Trail to Piñon Flat, down to the Salton Sea or up to the Morongos⁠—all the time trying to find something new, something the dear old public will mistake for Algeria, Araby, the South Seas.”</p>
			<p>“Sounds mighty interesting.”</p>
			<p>“It is, indeed. Particularly when one loves this country as I do.”</p>
			<p>“You were born here, perhaps?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, no. I came out with Dad to Doctor Whitcomb’s⁠—it’s five miles from here, just beyond the Madden ranch⁠—some years ago. When⁠—when Dad left me I had to get a job, and⁠—but look here, I’m telling you the story of my life.”</p>
			<p>“Why not?” asked Eden. “Women and children always confide in me. I’ve got such a fatherly face. By the way, this coffee is terrible.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, isn’t it?” she agreed. “What will you have for dessert? There are two kinds of pie⁠—apple, and the other’s out. Make your selection.”</p>
			<p>“I’ve made it,” he replied. “I’m taking the one that’s out.” He demanded his check. “Now, if you’ll let me pay for your dinner⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Nothing of the sort,” she protested.</p>
			<p>“But after the way my steak attacked you.”</p>
			<p>“Forget it. I’ve an expense account, you know. If you say any more I’ll pay your check.”</p>
			<p>Ignoring the jar of toothpicks hospitably offered by a friendly cashier, Bob Eden followed her to the street. Night had fallen; the pavement was deserted. On the false front of a long, low building with sides of corrugated tin, a sad little string of electric lights proclaimed that gaiety was afoot.</p>
			<p>“Whither away?” Bob Eden said. “The movies?”</p>
			<p>“Heavens, no. I remember that one. It took ten years off my young life. Tell me, what are you doing here? People confide in me too. Stranger, you don’t belong.”</p>
			<p>“No, I’m afraid I don’t,” Eden admitted. “It’s a complicated story, but I’ll inflict it on you, anyhow, some day. Just at present I’m looking for the editor of the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Eldorado Times</i>. I’ve got a letter to him in my pocket.”</p>
			<p>“Will Holley?”</p>
			<p>“Yes. You know him?”</p>
			<p>“Everybody knows him. Come with me. He ought to be in his office now.”</p>
			<p>They turned down First Street. Bob Eden was pleasantly conscious of the slim, lithe figure walking at his side. He had never before met a girl so modestly confident, so aware of life and unafraid of it. These desert towns were delightful.</p>
			<p>A light was burning in the newspaper office, and under it a frail figure sat hunched over a typewriter. As they entered Will Holley rose, removing a green shade from his eyes. He was a thin, tall man of thirty-five or so, with prematurely grey hair and wistful eyes.</p>
			<p>“Hello, Paula,” he said.</p>
			<p>“Hello, Will. See what <em>I</em> found at the Oasis Café?”</p>
			<p>Holley smiled. “You would find him,” he said. “You’re the only one I know who can discover anything worth while in Eldorado. My boy, I don’t know who you are, but run away before this desert gets you.”</p>
			<p>“I’ve a letter to you, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Holley,” Eden said. He took it from his pocket. “It’s from an old friend of yours⁠—Harry Fladgate.”</p>
			<p>“Harry Fladgate,” repeated Holley softly. He read the letter through. “A voice from the past,” he said. “The past when we were boys together on the old <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Sun</i>, in New York. Say⁠—that was a newspaper!” He was silent for a moment, staring out at the desert night. “Harry says you’re here on business of some sort,” he added.</p>
			<p>“Why, yes,” Eden replied. “I’ll tell you about it later. Just at present I want to hire a car to take me out to the Madden ranch.”</p>
			<p>“You want to see <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">P. J.</abbr> himself?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, just as soon as possible. He’s out there, isn’t he?”</p>
			<p>Holley nodded. “Yes⁠—he’s supposed to be. However, I haven’t seen him. It’s rumoured he came by motor the other day from Barstow. This young woman can tell you more about him than I can. By the way, have you two met each other, or are you just taking a stroll together in the moonlight?”</p>
			<p>“Well, the fact is⁠—” smiled Eden. “Miss⁠—er⁠—she just let a steak of mine get away from her in the Oasis. I had to credit her with an error in the infield, but she made a splendid try. However, as to names⁠—and all that⁠—”</p>
			<p>“So I perceive,” said Holley. “Miss Paula Wendell, may I present <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Bob Eden? Let us not forget our book of etiquette, even here in the devil’s garden.”</p>
			<p>“Thanks, old man,” remarked Eden. “No one has ever done me a greater kindness. Now that we’ve been introduced, Miss Wendell, and I can speak to you at last, tell me⁠—do you know <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Madden?”</p>
			<p>“Not exactly,” she replied. “It isn’t given such humble folk to know the great Madden. But several years ago my company took some pictures at his ranch⁠—he has rather a handsome house there, with a darling patio. The other day we got hold of a script that fairly screamed for the Madden patio. I wrote him, asking permission to use his place, and he answered⁠—from San Francisco⁠—that he was coming down and would be glad to grant our request. His letter was really most kind.”</p>
			<p>The girl sat down on the edge of Holley’s typewriter table. “I got to Eldorado two nights ago, and drove out to Madden’s at once. And⁠—well, it was rather queer⁠—what happened. Do you want to hear all this?”</p>
			<p>“I certainly do,” Bob Eden assured her.</p>
			<p>“The gate was open, and I drove into the yard. The lights of my car flashed suddenly on the barn door, and I saw a bent old man with a black beard and a pack on his back⁠—evidently an old-time prospector such as one meets occasionally, even today, in this desert country. It was his expression that startled me. He stood like a frightened rabbit in the spotlight, then darted away. I knocked at the ranch-house door. There was a long delay, then finally a man came, a pale, excited-looking man⁠—Madden’s secretary, Thorn, he said he was. I give you my word⁠—Will’s heard this before⁠—he was trembling all over. I told him my business with Madden, and he was very rude. He informed me that I positively could not see the great <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">P. J.</abbr> ‘Come back in a week,’ he said, over and over. I argued and pleaded⁠—and he shut the door in my face.”</p>
			<p>“You couldn’t see Madden,” repeated Bob Eden slowly. “Anything else?”</p>
			<p>“Not much. I drove back to town. A short distance down the road my lights picked up the little old prospector again. But when I got to where I thought he was he’d disappeared utterly. I didn’t investigate⁠—I just stepped on the gas. My love for the desert isn’t so keen after dark.”</p>
			<p>Bob Eden took out a cigarette. “I’m awfully obliged,” he said. “<abbr>Mr.</abbr> Holley, I must get out to Madden’s at once. If you’ll direct me to a garage⁠—”</p>
			<p>“I’ll do nothing of the sort,” Holley replied. “An old flivver that answers to the name of Horace Greeley happens to be among my possessions at the moment, and I’m going to drive you out.”</p>
			<p>“I couldn’t think of taking you away from your work.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, don’t joke like that. You’re breaking my heart. My work! Here I am, trying to string one good day’s work along over all eternity, and you drift in and start to kid me⁠—”</p>
			<p>“I’m sorry,” said Eden. “Come to think of it, I did see your placard on the door.”</p>
			<p>Holley shrugged. “I suppose that was just cheap cynicism. I try to steer clear of it. But sometimes⁠—sometimes⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>They went together out of the office, and Holley locked the door. The deserted, sad little street stretched off to nowhere in each direction. The editor waved his hand at the somnolent picture.</p>
			<p>“You’ll find us all about out here,” he said, “the exiles of the world. Of course, the desert is grand, and we love it⁠—but once let a doctor say ‘You can go’ and you couldn’t see us for the dust. I don’t mind the daytime so much⁠—the hot, friendly day⁠—but the nights⁠—the cold, lonely nights.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, it isn’t so bad, Will,” said the girl gently.</p>
			<p>“Oh, no, it isn’t so bad,” he admitted. “Not since the radio⁠—and the pictures. Night after night I sit over there in that movie theatre, and sometimes, in a newsreel or perhaps in a feature, I see Fifth Avenue again, Fifth Avenue at Forty-second, with the motors, and the lions in front of the library, and the women in furs. But I never see Park Row.” The three of them walked along in silence through the sand. “If you love me, Paula,” added Will Holley softly, “there’s a location you’ll find. A story about Park Row, with the crowds under the El, and the wagons backed up to the rear door of the post-office, and Perry’s Drug Store, and the gold dome of the World. Give me a film of that, and I’ll sit in the Strand watching it over and over until these old eyes go blind.”</p>
			<p>“I’d like to,” said the girl. “But those crowds under the Elevated wouldn’t care for it. What they want is the desert⁠—the broad, open spaces away from the roar of the town.”</p>
			<p>Holley nodded. “I know. It’s a feeling that’s spread over America these past few years like some dread epidemic. I must write an editorial about it. The French have a proverb that describes it: ‘Wherever one is not, that is where the heart is.’ ”</p>
			<p>The girl held out her hand. “<abbr>Mr.</abbr> Eden, I’m leaving you here⁠—leaving you for a happy night at the Desert Edge Hotel.”</p>
			<p>“But I’ll see you again,” Bob Eden said quickly. “I must.”</p>
			<p>“You surely will. I’m coming out to Madden’s ranch tomorrow. I have that letter of his, and this time I’ll see him⁠—you bet I’ll see him if he’s there.”</p>
			<p>“If he’s there,” repeated Bob Eden thoughtfully. “Good night. But before you go⁠—how do you like your steaks?”</p>
			<p>“Rare,” she laughed.</p>
			<p>“Yes⁠—I guess one was enough. However, I’m very grateful to that one.”</p>
			<p>“It was a lovely steak,” she said. “Good night.”</p>
			<p>Will Holley led the way to an aged car parked before the hotel. “Jump in,” he said. “It’s only a short run.”</p>
			<p>“Just a moment⁠—I must get my bag,” Eden replied. He entered the hotel and returned in a moment with his suitcase, which he tossed into the tonneau. “Horace Greeley’s ready,” Holley said. “Come west, young man.”</p>
			<p>Eden climbed in, and the little car clattered down Main Street. “This is mighty kind of you,” the boy said.</p>
			<p>“It’s a lot of fun,” Holley answered. “You know, I’ve been thinking. Old <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">P. J.</abbr> never gives an interview, but you can’t tell⁠—I might be able to persuade him. These famous men sometimes let down a little when they get out here. It would be a big feather in my cap. They’d hear of me on Park Row again.”</p>
			<p>“I’ll do all I can to help,” Bob Eden promised.</p>
			<p>“That’s good of you,” Holley answered. The faint yellow lights of Eldorado grew even fainter behind them. They ascended a rough road between two small hills⁠—barren, unlovely piles of badly assorted rocks. “Well, I’m going to try it,” the editor added. “But I hope I have more luck than the last time.”</p>
			<p>“Oh⁠—then you’ve seen Madden before?” Eden asked with interest.</p>
			<p>“Just once,” Holley replied. “Twelve years ago, when I was a reporter in New York. I’d managed to get into a gambling-house in Forty-fourth Street, a few doors east of Delmonico’s. It didn’t have a very good reputation, that joint, but there was the great <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">P. J.</abbr> Madden himself, all dolled up in evening clothes, betting his head off. They said that after he’d gambled all day in Wall Street, he couldn’t let it alone⁠—hung round the roulette-wheels in that house every night.”</p>
			<p>“And you tried to interview him?”</p>
			<p>“I did. I was a fool kid, with lots of nerve. He had a big railroad merger in the air at the time, and I decided to ask him about it. So I went up to him during a lull in the betting. I told him I was on a newspaper⁠—and that was as far as I got. ‘Get the hell out of here,’ he roared. ‘You know I never give interviews.’ ” Holley laughed. “That was my first and only meeting with <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">P. J.</abbr> Madden. It wasn’t a very propitious beginning, but what I started that night on Forty-fourth Street I’m going to try to finish out here tonight.”</p>
			<p>They reached the top of the grade, the rocky hills dropped behind them, and they were in a mammoth doorway leading to a strange new world. Up amid the platinum stars a thin slice of moon rode high, and far below in that meagre light lay the great grey desert, lonely and mysterious.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
